Add newsletter May (#165)
maplibre/maplibre.github.io: content/news/2023-05-18-maplibre-newsletter-may-2023/index.md

---
title: "MapLibre Newsletter May 2023"
date: 2023-05-16
categories: ["newsletter"]
authors: [duje]
draft: false
---

# MapLibre Newsletter - May 2023

## Highlights

> We would like to thank our first sponsor [Mierune](https://www.mierune.co.jp/) for their continued trust in MapLibre.

Reviewer: Please show the mierune logo. You can use the same asset as we use on maplibre.org/sponsors.

> Many real-world applications have been built with MapLibre. As suggested in https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/discussions/242 it is about bringing the Community together. Implementing new ideas is what will make MapLibre thrive further. We want to recognize all of your efforts, collectively, and so decided to expand on the idea of the [MapLibre Innovation Lab](https://lab.maplibre.org/).

Reviewer 2: This reads very weird to me. What does 'it' refer to in "it is about bringing.."

The link is dead so should be removed?

Reviewer: I would suggest to remove the link 
```suggestion
Many real-world applications have been built with MapLibre. As suggested in https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/discussions/242 it is about bringing the Community together. Implementing new ideas is what will make MapLibre thrive further. We want to recognize all of your efforts, collectively, and so decided to expand on the idea of the MapLibre Innovation Lab - stay tuned...
```

<a href="https://www.ogc.org/initiatives/ogcsprints/">

> <img src="ogc-sprint.jpg">

Reviewer: Cool picture! Please add a maxwidth or something that it does not show too large. You can check how it was done in other news articles.

> <img src="ogc-sprint.jpg">

Reviewer 2: Better to drag and drop the image into the GitHub editor than to include it with git. git does not deal well with binary blobs (unless you use git LFS). checkouts will get very slow over time. Then it will get hosted by GitHub.

Author: LFS next time, thanks for the hint!

</a>

Left to right: Oliver Wipfli (MapLibre), Brandon Liu (Protomaps), Emmanuel Belo (CamptoCamp), Bart Louwers (MapLibre)

To engage with the Community in person, MapLibre was represented at the [OGC Code Sprint](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/camptocamp-sa_the-ogc-code-sprint-at-camptocamp-activity-7062726780234682368-9Dq_) in April. We mingled with fellow geospatial developers at the beautiful offices of the host [CamptoCamp](https://www.camptocamp.org/). We enjoyed a family-like gathering with Lake Geneva and its surrounding mountains only a stone's throw away. As of [MapLibre GL JS](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-gl-js), we tested a pitch-dependent field of view, which can be used to let 3D buildings 'pop out' as you change the pitch. Additionally, we experimented to make the depth buffer accessible for end users, which can be used to implement effects, such as fog, in the near future. Regarding [MapLibre Native](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native), some work on CI was done: from now on, a bot leaves comments with a link of the results on PRs when render tests have run.

> #### Bounty Programm 💰

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Bounty Program 💰
```

We use this spelling elsewhere.

## Metal

Check up on weekly updates from now on [here](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/discussions/1072) and follow the project roadmap [here](https://github.com/orgs/maplibre/projects/8)

Highlights since April 14th, 2023:

- Restructuring the code around drawables, builders and render loop
- Introducing [UBOs](https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Uniform_Buffer_Object)
- Refactoring layers starting with BackgroundLayer, FillLayer, CircleLayer and LineLayer

## Events

We would like to point out the [MapLibre User Group Japan](https://bit.ly/mug--jp) initiated by [Yasunori](https://github.com/dayjournal). The 5th event will take place [here](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1nAJErzVBvgxL), June 7th, 2023 19:00 (JST). At the previous event 32 listeners participated when [MapLibre Native](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native) was introduced. Another focus was [FOSS4G](https://2023.foss4g.org/). Anyone who is interested, please do not hesitate to join. Everyone is welcome.

## Next Up

> We are looking forward to the preparations on the upcoming Governing Board Elections that will take place August 24th, 2023.

Reviewer: Please add a link to the MapLibre talks at SotMUS. @nyurik  is presenting there, also a few more. Please check in the slack channel, I think @roblabs posted all MapLibre talks there...

Reviewer 3: Thanks @wipfli 

Please use this link for State of the Map
* https://2023.stateofthemap.us/schedule 

Not necessarily all talks listed in Slack are MapLibre related.  This list is those that are with members in #MapLibre OSM Slack channel
* Cross-referenced 2023 schedule announcement with members in #MapLibre OSM Slack channel — https://osmus.slack.com/archives/C01G3D28DAB/p1682614633469129
